this one. >> Cool. Um, now and I I guess I should even just start with so are you going to be um leading the instruction on with with her or is she doing it separately? >> No. Um, she's coming to my class. So, >> okay, great. And where are you like where are you guys in the in the program right now? >> Uh, right now most of us are on standard 7 or we'll be starting standard 7 next week. Um, some of them are already ahead because they like to work ahead and I've allowed them to. Um, some of them are just trying to to get things finished. Um, we've got a few that are uh either they're joining the military early or there there's always something else that's going on. So, we're trying to get them through as fast as we can so that and still with quality so that um when um they can be completely finished and we can guarantee that they're completely finished um we can let their recruiter know and they can get them sent to boot camp. >> Wow. >> Big big life changes right there. >> Large life changes. >> Wow. That's crazy. Well, so th but this is still meant to be a synchronous class that you're running right together move through things together which is that's you know how it should be and not everybody >> um has been able to do that. uh some some have with great success and some others have have seen when they tried to do it asynchronously that there was there were some issues that they were you know just running into that that you run into with any asynchronous class where kids are just going to go click click click click click and try to get through it as quickly >> so we're building out um back stops to kind of help mitigate that. Um but that doesn't sound like that's the case here with you guys. So you're going through through things kind of together and letting them work and and so this is it's exciting now. And you went through it in the first semester as well with a different class, right? >> Well, um no, it's the um well, some of them are the same and some of them are different. some of them um because we were we weren't quite able just because of some of the other responsibilities that I had weren't quite able to do it how I had intended. >> So we we kind of slowly got started. So uh this next semester we just kind of started all over as a refresher. Um that's why we're up to standard 7 right now. Um, and um, the ones that were in with me the first semester because it's supposed to be a full year class, they're the ones who are moving on a faster pace or they're the ones that are going into the military. Um, just because they've already had it and and they're pretty quick and easy. The ones that have started this semester with me, we are going synchronous. >> Great. Very good. Well, uh, if you don't mind, I might just start at the beginning with a couple of just introductory like if you could tell me again about your your role and how long you've been teaching financial literacy. This will help as I put these little teacher spotlights together if you if you don't mind. >> I don't mind. >> Please. Uh, so yeah, tell me about your role and how long you've been teaching the subject financial literacy. Um I have been in um some position with alternative education for uh three years now and I started out with counselor then counselor director now counselor director capstone teacher. So this is my first year uh with the having to teach the financial literacy piece. Um this is also the first year that we've had a packaged program for financial literacy. It's been kind of hodge podgeed before. Well, that leads me right to the next question is what what were you doing before, >> you know, and and and what was that experience like? Generally, >> um because we were a nighttime um program, it was difficult for us to get the people that would come in during the day and like the insurance agent or the the person from the bank, you know, to to go through those types of things. Sometimes it was difficult since um our classes are from uh 4 to 8 um in the evenings and then the classes that we teach um financial literacy in that doesn't start until 6:30. That's kind of when everybody wants to be off work anyway. So, it's hard to get people to come in. So, with the way that you have the program set up, it was a whole lot easier for them to um at least see some things and hear some people talk about, you know, what they go through for the the thing, whatever item it is that we're topic is that we're talking about. Um, so that helped in us me not having to scramble to find somebody who was willing to come in at night. >> Sure. I mean that's a big responsibility for >> you to have to >> you know expect to unload other to other people especially at in the evening hours that's tricky. >> Did you have to do that I mean for like week not daily you wouldn't have somebody come in daily? Oh, no, no, no, no. We would try to schedule >> um it wasn't great, but we would try to schedule um for like every other standard. Try to schedule somebody coming in during that time to um to either hit the standard before or that standard or even the standard that's coming up. But it was just whoever I could find in that particular area and if it worked out in their schedule to come. So this year has been even more difficult finding somebody. So I think I've only had maybe one or two come in this this entire year whereas last year we had five or six. Um so it's just because of just the differences in the time it's been it's made it more difficult to have people come in and speak to them. >> Okay. Um well what made you decide to to go with us with with BFL Academy then? Well, I was looking at um another uh program and then my principal went to um one of the conferences that she talked with you about and she got me in touch with you, had me sit down, look at the program and stuff and the way your program was set up was just a whole lot to me more user friendly than the other program. Plus, when I need it to be, they are able to go off on their own and do their own and then we can come back together later and like, "Okay, we missed this talking about this together. Let's talk about it now." And um it it doesn't make them wait on me whenever for some reason I can't be there in that capacity because I have three different roles and sometimes one has to take priority over the other. >> Sure. Sure. Well, uh, now that you've been using it, I mean, I there was some getting, you know, ramped up, I guess, in the first semester, and now it sounds like there's some more kind of, uh, >> Well, it wasn't y'all either. It was our other system wasn't wanting to do what it was supposed to do. So, it wasn't y'all. >> Appreciate that. But now that you've been using the platform, is there anything in particular that stood out to you? Um, either things that worked well or things that surprised you? Well, the um I liked being able to go in and look at specific students, but then also look at the whole class and um figure out what is it that maybe we need to go back and touch on. >> Uh but also um how much the conversation about the topic when when I have them do their activity first, then we start talking about it, having a discussion, they take over that discussion. I don't have to prompt them a whole lot. So they're getting that information that um I would not have been able to taught as well because this would be my first year and and like I said all the hats but uh but the kids are definitely getting it and they're showing me just in their conversation and the discussions that we have that they are understanding it. >> That's great. That's I mean that's the most important thing to hear and and it's interesting that you're getting it both from a dashboard standpoint kind of from an uh implementation for you >> that we're hope hopefully lightening your load from that perspective which has been a goal as well as the support that that we're trying to bring to the table with the teacher guides to help kind of show you how to get you know >> through each particular section and then but if the kids are just running with it then there's you know hopefully it's more just kind providing those guardrails and letting them have these conversations. Right. >> Exactly. So, I've been a little bit more handsoff. I might just say, "Hey, we're going to talk about this today." And then go and then they they go and then they discuss it and they, you know, um I might give them like um a case study or something and with using that frame and they debate it. It's fantastic. And I haven't heard a lot of these kids, they're in alternative for a reason, but I haven't heard a lot of these kids socialize as much as they have before over something that's not art. So, it's pretty interesting that it's about financial literacy. >> Nice. I love it. That's great. That's great. I mean, it and it really is one of those things. I hope that they can see that it's going to touch their lives in a very specific way where some other theoretical academic things like philosophy or you know even English and math they can be very abstract but this is one of those >> topics that's like you're going to have to pay rent no matter you know so right >> I hope that that it sounds like they are you know that they see that and and in fact I would my next question was actually how have your your students responded into the material. Uh, and are there any moments or reactions that really stick out? >> Oh, absolutely. Well, um, we have one student who, um, he wants to buy his aunt's house and, um, she had passed away and and he's trying to figure out how to go through the bank. Well, he he's kind of he goes, "Can I go ahead and skip to that that standard?" Absolutely. Go right ahead. And then another student was in the market for a vehicle, wanted to make sure that he was getting a fair deal and wanted to go and go skip to that. And I said, "Go ahead." And and this is what it's for. And um and it helped those conversations. So after they did it, they if they had more conversations, they came questions, they came back to me. Um one of them I can't remember if it's the one with the that was wanting the car loan or the home loan. Um but uh and the one with the home loan is a little bit older so it you know he he's in that ballpark where he could legally purchase. Um when they went to talk to the bank they knew what they were talking about and um that was something that that um came back and told me he was that was amazing. I didn't feel intimidated by anything. I felt like I understood what was going on. So that was really neat. >> That's great. That's such a great I mean what a great feeling to be able to kind of have helped uh give him instill that confidence. >> That's a that's that's wonderful. How old was he by the way? >> Um he is 19 almost 20. So he's he's about to be in our our older group. But you know like I said sometimes life gets in the way for these kids and as long as they're going to finish >> we're glad to help them. Well, yeah. And that sounds like he was well positioned to make the right decisions and ask the right questions. So, >> that's that's great. Um, has the platform changed anything about the way you prepare uh for or deliver your lessons? >> I think it's made it easier. Um, you know, there just because there were so many different things that was happening at the uh beginning of the school year, me trying to figure out several different things cuz I became a high school counselor from a math teacher before >> in middle school. So, uh there was just so many things that I needed to learn all at once >> um that it was pretty easy to figure out your dashboard and the the teacher guides before, but I think after the revamp, I think it was even easier. Great. Perfect. Well, I'm glad and and really, you know, those teacher guides are there with I mean for with with purpose and for for a very kind of not only just to support you in that kind of a transition that that you happen to be going through, but also even like what if you know you're sick for the day and and there needs to come a sub that needs to be able to step right in and be able to kind of see what's going on quickly and understand. like that's we're hope hopefully building it so that that is that is the case. And so it sounds like that proved to be at least while you were >> and there's a lot of times that I have to step out of the classroom anyway and I have an extra person on staff that's able to step in um to a classroom when somebody has to be called out for for some reason. So she's very comfortable with the material as well. So she knows that if I say, "Okay, we're working on this." She knows exactly what I'm talking about. And um so it that's made it easier for me to be able to step out and take care of other business when I need to. >> I love it. Well, um I guess my last question generally is, you know, if another teacher who's never taught financial literacy before asks you about PFL Academy, um what might you tell them? >> Oh my gosh, highly recommended. Um it's in a such an understandable way for the teacher and the student. It drives questions that you wouldn't even think about with the students when they become engaged. It's um easier than anything that I've seen and that I've looked at. It's but it's also quality and that's the thing that I want my kids to have is I want them to be able to go out with confidence that they do know um that they can take care of their own finances and what that entails so that they're not having to start out living paycheck to paycheck. they can go ahead and figure out, yeah, I really do need to have a savings account. I really do need to think about investing. I really do do need to think about taxes. Um, so having them be able to have those conversations and I feel like able to implement those in the real world has been just a huge blessing. So I would recommend this this company for anybody I I see. >> Thank you. Thank you. Well, that's that's wonderful to hear and um and of course we're going to continue to do everything we can to keep improving and and building and making it all the more, you know, robust. Um outside of of those things, I did want to mention um that chapter with you guys in Oklahoma, uh standard 15 14 >> I think it's 14. >> So standard 15 is built specifically for the capstone projects. Mhm. >> which which you're >> you know in charge of. So I I just wanted to reiterate um that you know that really does when you get a chance to kind of take a look at that as you're planning for the rest of the semester and timing timing wise to kind of do you know you're of course you're doing the best that you can no matter what. But remembering that like that really is built out specifically for these capstone projects where there's going to be the resume builders, there's going to be interview that um >> we have our interview. So I I've had to do some of the standards kind of out of order because we have our uh mock interviews >> um the first week of April. So I've had to do a couple of things a little out of order. >> Well, that's great. I mean it it's all there for you and and we So did you guys take it did you jump into the mock interviews that that the platforms pro that the platform provides? >> We uh we checked we took a look at them >> um and the kids are building their resumes and the ones that that are starting out my the ones from last semester already built their interview interviews resumes and they've already kind of gone through the process of practicing for an interview. Um so now we're just catching the new ones up to speed. Okay. Um, and I need to go back through and and confirm that the that the actual AI integration is is working as it should be. But the intention was that you go hit play and that the there's there's that AI interviewer who's asking the questions and then the student gets recorded and just like you and I are here, it's a, you know, it's it's going to be an interview essentially with with the kids. So, I'll I'll uh double check to make sure that everything is in fact built out as it should be so that well positioned for that and I'll circle back to make sure that that's the case. Um, >> okay. >> Because I'd love to I'd love to get some some fe both feedback on that but also >> so that you guys can have that because the the intention behind it and and I mean we built it out this way. It's just we haven't had anybody get to to actually do the implementation of the of the interviews >> is that not only um you know is there the the students are being uh posed with the with whatever the interview questions are based on they they select a particular category within you know whatever their um sector is going to be. um and that the the video is recorded and watched and you get automatic feedback in terms of the stu both you and the student the student will be given a a a a grade that's kind of you know take it or leave it. You can do whatever you want with it. But then it also >> provides feedback in terms of like if the students going like this and they're wait, you know, they're nervous or they keep touching their face or whatever it is, >> right? those kinds of of like hey because you don't you're not aware of what you're doing when you're you know a kid and even even you know if you're nervous and I I'm as a public speaker I need to work on it myself and there's things that that you can practice and that are brought to the table. So you get a full list of of specific feedback for that student and their performance as it was um along you know with with a certain grade that you could say you and and if you were to have focused on this that and the other. So it's a whole review of their actual interview. So that's >> you know for you to to use when it comes to the grading criteria if you want. Um or or just for them to put in their back pocket you know. >> Yeah. And and I think that gosh that that would be awesome because uh I'm kind of getting worried that I'm going to find enough interviewers. So if >> that's the whole thing that's that's what so and and not only that and and I have to say like >> the intention is that that's going to be the case for uh job interviews for uh applying for a loan at a bank and asking having the banker ask questions and having the kids have to respond accordingly. uh getting an auto loan or buying a car and trying to avoid like all the upsales stuff or whatever it is or listening to them and if it if it matters to them >> then at least going through the process. So anytime that there's the opportunity for an engagement on that interviewing roommates landlords um so there's about five that we have um built out and those are typically kind of toward in the the back at toward the back though >> it really does uh bring me to to the point of of ensuring that I need to make sure that everything is is done properly. So, I'm going to check, you know, check that those things are all built out and I'll circle back with you next week uh to confirm and let you know how how those things are are functioning. >> Yeah. Sorry, I say next week spring break, but no, it's the week after. So, >> I was hoping. >> Yeah. >> All right. Um well, look, this has really been um insightful for me and it's it's great to hear that generally things are are positive and and supportive and moving in the right direction. Um and and but really your feedback is super important from uh you know can we refine this? What like on your dashboard is there a way that we can help make it easier, better, what have you. I mean, if you got to really see the difference between last port year's dashboard and this year's updated dashboard, you can now click into the grade book to see kind of to drill down into the individual students and the >> uh the the um >> uh assignments that that they have completed or not completed uh and reassign those. And so as we go, it's just going to continue. This is >> this is the worst that it's ever going to be. It's only going to get better. >> That's right. Well, I will say that from last semester to this semester, it is easier to figure out um how to do some things. I guess I still ask you questions but >> look, I'm here for >> it. It has been easier like um there was one kid that that he doesn't know what happened. Uh but it like it he submitted it without it actually being completed, so it gave him like a zero or something. Um, so being able to reset it pretty quick and easy um while I was basically on the run. So it was it was perfect. So >> perfect. >> Very good. All right. Well, listen, Casey, I don't want to take up more of your time. Uh, thank you again for for believing in us and giving us the shot and and for really running it and getting the feedback from the students. And it sounds like, I mean, if we're preparing them for a conversation with bankers about how to get a loan on their home and they're confident, >> I mean, I think that is the most we can can hope for right there. >> I I think yes, exactly right. I think that's the the proof that we're looking for anyway. If they're able to go in there and navigate it just after having, you know, gone through that unit, that standard, and felt confident, that speaks a lot to how the the curriculum is handled. >> Yeah. I love it. All right. Well, I will uh let you carry on with the rest of your afternoon. >> Thank you for your time again and keep in touch. I'll circle back with you on Monday to kind of let you know. I'm going to go through and audit some stuff to make sure that we're dialed in and and to give you some direction in terms of where those interviews are so that you can dive into those with your students. Okay. >> Okay. >> All right. Thank you, Casey. >> See you. Right. Bye. Bye. Bye.
