REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS
#12-26
EXPANDED LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAMS (ELOP) INTERMEDIATE ENRICHMENT PROGRAMS

PROPOSAL DEADLINE DATE

April 7, 2026
By 2:00 p.m.

SUBMIT PROPOSALS TO
Benjamin Barajas
Senior Buyer
SANTA ANA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
1601 E. Chestnut Avenue, Purchasing Dept., Rm A150
Santa Ana, California 92701
Phone: 714.558.5614

1

SANTA ANA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT NOTICE TO SUBMITTERS
RFP NO. 12-26

Expanded Learning Opportunities Programs (ELOP) Intermediate Enrichment Programs
In accordance with Public Contract Code 20111, notice is hereby given that the Santa Ana Unified
School District, will receive up to, but no later than 2:00 p.m., on April 07, 2024, at the Purchasing
Department, Room 150, 1601 East Chestnut Avenue, Santa Ana, CA 92701, Requests for Proposal (RFPs)
for the award of a contract Expanded Learning Opportunities Programs (ELOP) Intermediate Enrichment
Programs
Each RFP must conform and be responsive to the RFP documents, copies of which may be obtained on
the Purchasing Department website at https://vendors.planetbids.com/portal/33081/bo/bo-search or by
calling the Purchasing Department at (714) 558-5614.
No submitter may withdraw his RFP for a period of sixty (60) days after the date set for submission.
All RFPs shall be made and presented in the form requested by the District. One original copy and one
digital copy must be submitted. All contracts entered into as a result of this RFP will be contingent upon
funding and may be canceled by the District by providing notice to the vendor no less than 30 days prior to
the renewal date of the contract.
The District reserves the right to waive any irregularities, accept or reject any or all RFPs and to accept
or reject any items thereon.
SANTA ANA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
Benjamin Barajas
Senior Buyer
Published:
Orange County Register
March 13, 2026
March 20,2026

Tentative Timeline

Milestone
Advertisement Dates (Orange County Register)
Request for Information Due
Addendum
Proposals Due Date
Award of Contract(s) by Authorization of the
Board of Education
Execution of Contract

Date
March 13, 2026 and March 20,
2026
March 27, 2026 by 4:30 P.M.
PST
April 2, 2026 by 4:30 P.M.
PST
April 7, 2026
No Later Than 2:00 P.M. PST
June 2026
June 2026

INSTRUCTIONS AND CONDITIONS
1. DEFINITIONS:
a. As used herein, “RFP” means this Request for Proposal, RFP 12-26.
b. As used herein, “District” or “SAUSD” means the Santa Ana Unified School District.
c. As used herein, “Offeror” means the Firm or Contractor submitting a Proposal.
d. As used herein, “Offer” means the Proposal.
e. As used herein, “Contract” means an associated Agreement with the District.
f. As used herein, “Contractor” means the firm or Contractor that is awarded the contract with
the District
2. PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS:
a. One (1) paper copy of the proposal and a complete copy on a flash drive shall be sealed
together and submitted by no later than the closing date and time. Proposals shall be delivered
to the attention of: Benjamin Barajas, Senior Buyer, Purchasing Department, Santa Ana Unified
School District, 1601 E. Chestnut Ave., Santa Ana, CA 92701. It is the sole responsibility of the
firm submitting the proposal to ensure that it is actually received by the District prior to the
deadline time and due date and at the proper location. Unless this RFP is extended by a written
amendment, proposals received after the due date and time, will not be considered.
b. Proposals shall be completed in all respects as required by the instructions herein. A proposal
may be rejected if it is conditional or incomplete, or if it contains alterations of form or other
irregularities of any kind. A proposal will be rejected if, in the opinion of the DISTRICT, the
information contained therein was intended to mislead the DISTRICT in the evaluation of the
proposal.
c. The proposal submitted must not contain erasure, interlineations, or other corrections unless
each correction is clearly and conspicuously authenticated by signing in the margin immediately
opposite the correction the name of the person signing the proposal. An Offeror will be bound

by the terms and conditions of the proposal, notwithstanding the fact that errors may be or are
contained therein. However, if material errors are actually discovered in a proposal, the
DISTRICT will notify the Offeror that the proposal, as submitted, appears to contain errors and
require the Offeror to correct the errors.
d. The DISTRICT requests that Offerors provide a best and final offer.
e. The DISTRICT may request a meeting with the Offerors representative to request answers and
clarifications or it may request that the Offeror answer specific questions in writing, or to make
a presentation to the District or to its Governing Board prior to any Agreement award.
f. The DISTRICT may reject any or all proposals, and may waive informalities and minor
irregularities in proposals received.
g. All current and past providers must submit new proposals.
h. All proposals and materials submitted in response to this RFP shall become the property of the
District and shall be considered a part of the Public Record.
i. After acceptance of the proposal by the District, a contract between the successful firm and
the District will be executed and will consist of the terms and conditions of this RFP and the
Scope of Work and Requirements.
3. EXPLANATIONS TO OFFERORS:
a. If an Offeror desires an explanation or clarification of any kind regarding this RFP, the Offeror
must make a written request for such explanation. Requests should be made by email to
Benjamin.barjas@sausd.us by April 07, 2026. Please indicate RFP #12-26 in the subject line
of email.
b. The District will advise all Offerors known to have received a copy of the RFP of the explanation
or clarification in the space provided on the abovementioned web site.
c. If an Offeror discovers any error such as an ambiguity, conflict, discrepancy, omission, or other error
in the RFP, then the Offeror shall immediately notify the District in writing.
4. AMENDMENTS:
Offerors are advised that the District reserves the right to amend this RFP at any time, prior to the RFP
closing date. Amendments will be done formally by providing written amendments to all potential
Offerors known to have received a copy of the RFP. If in the sole and absolute discretion of the District,
the change is of such a nature that additional time is required for Offeror to prepare proposals, the
District will change the due date deadline and notify all known Offerors in writing of the revised
deadline due date. All addendums will be posted on the District web site.
a. Offerors must acknowledge receipt of any and all RFP amendments. This shall be done by the
following means:
Include Signed Addenda with Firm Proposal/Offer Form

b. Failure to acknowledge in writing the receipt of any amendments may result in proposal
rejection.
5. VALIDITY OF FIRM PROPOSAL/OFFER:
Each proposal/offer must be a firm irrevocable offer, and remain open and valid for sixty (60) days
after RFP closing date.
6. SUBMITTING PROPOSALS:
E-mail, telegraphic or facsimile offers or electronic offers and modifications will NOT be considered.
7. MODIFICATION OR WITHDRAWAL OF PROPOSAL:
An Offeror may modify or withdraw a proposal after submission by written notice of withdrawal and
re-submission provided that the proposal withdrawal is prior to the due date deadline specified for
submission of proposals.
8. LATE PROPOSALS:
No proposal or proposal modification received after the due date deadline will be considered.
9. PROPOSAL EVALUATION:
a. It is anticipated that a contract will be made with the Offeror whose proposal is determined to
be in the overall best interest of the District by applying the evaluation criteria established in
this RFP.
b. A District Proposal Evaluation Committee will determine which, if any, proposal is in the
District’s overall best interest to accept. The committee members will utilize the data provided
by the Offeror in the chart below to rank Offerors submissions. A rating score of 80% or higher
is required for an Offeror to be invited to participate in Round 2 evaluations. It is the Offerors
responsibility to answer all items in the chart and include this chart with their RFP submission.
During the evaluation, the District may request proposal clarifications, explanations and
answers from an Offeror. The District may request an Offeror presentation and interview.
10. AGREEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The firm selected will also be required to promptly enter into a Consultant Agreement with the
District, that agreement along with the required scope of work for the RFP offering will serve as the
terms and conditions of this RFP and is attached here to.

11. Mandatory RFP Submittal Documents
Please ensure that the following documents are part of your RFP submittal, you are required to
submit 1 hard copy of your proposal along with a complete copy on a flash drive.
• Firm Proposal/Offer Form
• Non-Collusion Declaration

Attachment 1
Expanded Learning Opportunities Programs (ELOP) Intermediate Enrichment Programs
Scope of Work and Requirements
The California Department of Education (CDE) After School Education and Safety (ASES) grant and the
Expanded Learning Opportunities Programs (ELOP) funding require establishing before and/or afterschool education and enrichment programs. These programs are created through partnerships between
schools and the local community to provide literacy and academic enrichment, and to offer safe,
constructive alternatives for students in transitional kindergarten through eighth grade. The afterschool program provides an opportunity to merge school reform strategies with community resources.
The goal is to support local efforts to improve student support and broaden the base of support for
learning in a safe, constructive environment.
By way of this Request for Proposals (RFP), the Santa Ana Unified School District (SAUSD) intends to
award contracts to qualified after-school enrichment providers. The purpose of this RFP is to obtain
information that will enable the District to select qualified enrichment providers to offer enrichment
and safe, constructive alternatives for students in grades TK-5. The request for specific types of
enrichment offerings is indicative of responses obtained through stakeholder engagement
opportunities. Enrichment activities align with at least one of the five areas: 1) Arts and Culture (e.g.
music, instrumental, fine arts, cooking); 2) Science Technology Engineering and Math (STEM) (e.g.
robotics, coding, e-sports/gaming); 3) 21st Century Skills (e.g. technology, leadership, etc.); 4) College
and Career Readiness (e.g. career exploration; professional study skills, organizational skills, etc.); and
5) specialized movement (e.g. fitness, dance, karate, etc.).
SAUSD emphasizes aligning community provider (CP) placements with students' interests to ensure
the most beneficial and engaging experience possible. To achieve this, a comprehensive student
interest survey will be administered across all school sites during the preceding academic year. The
survey results will play a pivotal role in determining the allocation of community providers to various
sites. This approach ensures that the programs and activities offered are directly responsive to our
student population's expressed interests and needs, fostering a more vibrant and participatory
educational environment.
Intermediate and TK-8th school enrichment providers focusing on 6th-8th grade students are expected
to deliver the following services:
● Implement two (2) in-person 12-week semesterstargeting intermediate and TK-8th-grade schools,
specifically for students in 6th-8th grades.
● Provide enrichment sessions twice a week over the course of the two (2) in-person 12-week
semesters at the school site.
● Ensure sufficient staff availability and substitute coverage to deliver program service at a
minimum of 6 schools and a maximum of 18 schools per semester.
● Semester 1 of the program will start in the second month of the school year, September, with
Semester 2 concluding toward the end of May.
o Community Provider student recruitment will take place over 2 weeks in August and

●
●

●

●
●

1

January.
6th-8th-grade sessions will be 60 minutes
○ Pio Pico Elementary- 6th-7th grade students
Schedule weekly enrichment sessions Monday-Thursday for each school, starting 15 minutes
post-school dismissal.
○ Please note that Wednesdays have an earlier dismissal time per SAUSD’s bell schedule,
which will be provided approximately 2 weeks prior to the school start date.
○ Dismissal times may vary per school site.
Each session will accommodate at least 10 students and no more than 20 students.
o If registration for the program is at 9 or less, then the session will be closed due to low
enrollment.
o Community Providers must monitor attendance trends to ensure the minimum
attendance is maintained throughout the Semester.
A formal culminating event must occur at each school site served per semester.
A break in service will occur before the start of Semester 2 to allow Community Provider staff
time to host recruitment and registration for upcoming programs.
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION
1.1

Proposed enrichment services must align with at least one of the five areas: 1)
Arts and Culture; 2) Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM); 3) 21st
Century Skill; 4) College and Career Readiness; and 5) specialized movement.

1.2

Implement program services based on established semester dates and assigned
locations.
1.2.1 Enrichment services will begin on the second month of the school year, in
September
1.2.2 Enrichment services will conclude the last month of May of the school
year
1.2.3 Community providers will serve approximately 20 students per school per
week
1.2.4 Community providers may serve up to 14 schools per semester
throughout the school year based on the Community provider’s staff
capacity and the number of sites they can service.

1.3

Community Providers must establish a substitute system/protocol to ensure
adequate staff coverage.

2

1.4

In collaboration and with District approval, develop bilingual marketing materials
to inform the students and parents of the enrichment services, as needed.

1.5

Communicate staffing changes to the District as soon as possible if services are
impacted.

1.6

Community Provider staff will be responsible for recruiting students on-site
throughout the recruitment day designated by the district. This recruitment can
occur before, during, or after school hours. Recruitment completed during the
school day must be in collaboration with the Expanded Learning Site Supervisor
and approved by the principal.

1.7

Community Providers, with a waitlist, may have the option to facilitate more
than two sessions weekly per school to accommodate additional demand, if it
does not exceed the Community Provider contract award amount.

1.8

In accordance with SAUSD Board Policy 0410 (Nondiscrimination In District
Programs And Activities), enrichment programs are required to be accessible to
ALL students. All individuals shall be treated equitably in the receipt of district and
school services.

COMMUNITY PROVIDER PROGRAM EVALUATION
2.1

Prior to the start of each new school year, Community providers must submit an
Executive Summary of their Program Evaluation, including their Program Goals,
Assessment Plan (with any Pre- and Post-assessment questions/tools), and a
description of their Continuous Quality Improvement (CQI) process.

2.2

An outcome report must be completed and submitted at the end of each
program semester by the Community provider, and include: semester Dates,
schools served, # of students assessed, restated predictions, survey results, and
goals for the next semester
2.2.1 Outcome reports are due two (2) weeks after the end of each semester.
2.2.2 Community Provider staff will administer a student feedback survey at
the end of each semester, and the results will be included in their
outcomes report.

2.3

Community Provider staff will monitor ongoing student participation (e.g.,
attendance).

3

PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
3.1

All Community provider administrators and program staff will be required to
attend district-provided professional development
3.1.1 Once a year, the District hosts a SAUSD New Hire Community Provider
Orientation: General Program Overview, Policies and Procedures, Student
Supports, Positive Behavior and Intervention Supports, and Effective
Supervision (Approx. 4 hours). Should Community Provider staff be hired
after the professional development date or are unable to attend on
schedule, it becomes the Community Provider's obligation to ensure the
training is completed asynchronously. Proof must be provided to the
district upon completion.
3.1.2 Community Provider must have all staff trained in Sexual Harassment and
Discrimination and Mandated Reporter training. Proof must be provided
to the district upon request.

3.2

Community providers must ensure that all administrators and program staff are
appropriately trained in the specific subject area, enrichment activity, or service
focus in which they will be providing programming to students. Such training
must be completed before the staff delivers services.
3.2.1 Community Provider shall maintain documentation verifying staff training
and qualifications related to the designated program area. Proof must be
provided to the District upon request.

4

STAFFING
4.1

All Community provider administrators and program staff who will have direct
contact with students or visit school sites must complete the background check
and other onboarding items (TB Test; Emergency Contact Form) process prior to
accessing a school campus.

4.2

All Community provider administrators and program staff, who will have direct
contact with students or visit school sites, must complete the required District
training as indicated in section 3.1.

4.3

Community provider program staff, working directly with students, must meet the
minimum qualifications of the District After School Instructional Provider position:
High School Diploma and AA or 48 college units. Evidence of meeting the minimum
qualifications must be submitted to the district upon request.

4.4

Any Community provider program staff with allegations brought forward against
him or her will be subject to the District’s Community Provider investigation
process, including but not limited to removal from the after-school program.
4.4.1 Community provider administrators will be involved in the investigation
process, when possible, and will be required to meet with District
administration regarding the investigation findings.

5

6

ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS
5.1

A representative must be appointed to the district as a liaison between the
community provider and the District.

5.2

Community providers must attend a monthly Community Provider meeting. A
representative must be appointed to attend these meetings, with a backup
representative identified in the event the appointed representative cannot
attend.

5.3

Community provider representatives must be available during program hours
and available for any urgent district or personnel matters.

5.2

Invoices need to be submitted bi-monthly or monthly for all services to the
Expanded Learning department (please reference the contract subsection
1.12.3 Consultant Invoices, also see sample attachment #4).

5.3

Any solicitation to participate in a program not related to Expanded Learning
needs to be done outside of the program or follow the district's approval
process.

BUDGET
6.1

Community providers will be awarded contracts based on their proposed budget
and program site needs.

6.2

Community providers must complete the Program Budget Template (appendix x)
and include the following:
6.2.1 Ongoing costs (direct and indirect services)
6.2.1.1 Budget per semester is not to exceed $4,439.00

6.2.1.2 Budget session cost is $193.00. Service costs include all
salaries/statutory costs, staff prep/closing time, professional
development, and materials.
6.3.2 One-time costs (supplies & equipment)
6.3.2.1 One-time costs can only be invoiced in the first year of
implementation and in the event that technology (i.e., laptops,
robotic equipment, speakers) becomes outdated.
6.3.2.2 Upon the district's request, technology (i.e., laptops, robotic
equipment, speakers) may be subject to being turned over to the
district.
6.4

Should the district decide to discontinue services with a Community Provider or at
the end of the contract, any equipment valued over $500.00 must be turned over
to the district.
6.4.1 Per the California Department of Education Expanded Learning
Department, equipment must clearly be labeled “Property of the
LEA/grantee”, and not the property of the subcontracted third
party.
6.4.2. All items valued over $500.00 must be logged on an Expanded
Learning inventory equipment tracker (please reference
attachment #5 the equipment tracker template).

6.5

Outside of the proposed budget, no requests of the District or students will be
made to fund any participation in the program.

All proposals shall address the following items in the order listed below. The proposal is to
demonstrate the qualifications, competence, and capacity of the firm:
Section A.

Agency Profile – Provide a Profile of Your Company

i.

Include legal form of Agency, number of years in operation, home office location, and local office
location (if different).

ii.

Include the organization's history, vision, and mission, along with the number of years the agency
has provided similar services to other districts or partners.

iii.

Include history working with the Santa Ana Unified School District outside of an Expanded
Learning contract (if applicable).

Section B.

Program Design

i.

Describe the number of school sites your agency has the capacity to serve.
a. Serving a school requires hosting two (2) in -person 12 -week semesters, with each
semester hosting two (2) sessions per week (e.g., 6th-8th, Monday and Wednesday for
12 weeks).

ii.

Describe the curriculum the agency will offer that includes expert knowledge, experience, and
ability in at least one of the following areas: Arts and Culture, Science, Technology,
Engineering and Math (STEM), 21st Century Skills, College and Career Readiness, and/or
Specialized Movement for elementary and intermediate students.

iii.

Describe the curriculum the agency will offer, specific to grade levels 6th-8th.

iv.

Describe the ways in which the agency will ensure a quality enrichment program in the
following quality standards for expanded learning:
a. Safe & Supportive Environments - The program provides a safe and nurturing
environment that supports the developmental, social-emotional, and physical needs of
all students, including a 20:1 student-to-staff ratio.
b. Active & Engaged Learning - Program design and activities reflect active, meaningful,
and engaging learning methods that foster collaboration and broaden students'
horizons.
c. Skill Building - The program maintains high expectations for all students, intentionally
links program goals and curricula with 21st-century skills, and provides activities to help
students achieve mastery.
d. Youth Voice & Leadership - The program provides and supports intentional
opportunities for elementary and intermediate students to play a meaningful role in
program design and implementation, and provides ongoing access to authentic
leadership roles.
e. Healthy Choices & Behaviors - The program promotes student well-being through
opportunities to learn about and practice balanced nutrition, physical activity, and other
healthy choices in an environment that supports a healthy lifestyle.
f. Diversity, access, and equity - The program creates an environment in which students
experience values that embrace diversity and equity regardless of race, color, religion,
sex, age, income level, national origin, physical ability, sexual orientation, and/or gender
identity and expression.

g. Quality Staff - The program recruits and retains high-quality staff and volunteers who
are focused on creating a positive learning environment and provides ongoing
professional development based on assessed staff needs.
h. Collaborative Partnerships - The program intentionally builds and supports
collaborative relationships among internal and external stakeholders, including families,
schools, and the community, to achieve program goals.
i. Students
ii. Parents/Guardians
iii. Program Staff
i.

Program Management - The program has sound fiscal and administrative practices
supported by well-defined and documented policies and procedures that meet
requirements.

Section C. Organizational Operations
i.

Describe your agency’s capacity to hire, train, and retain staff.

ii. Describe how your agency will recruit and retain students.
iii. Describe your agency’s capacity to ensure that substitutes are provided in the event of a staff
member’s absence.
iv. Describe the types of professional development and ongoing coaching/support you offer to
staff, how often, and when and to whom.
v. Describe how your agency will communicate information about the enrichment programs,
including evaluation results and ongoing opportunities to interact with your agency to parents,
school personnel, and the community.
Section D. Program Evaluation
i. Describe your evaluation plan to measure the program's impact on students, including:
a. Goals
b. Methods
c. Metrics
ii. Describe how the evaluation information will be used for Continuous Quality Improvement.
Section E. General Budget Information
i. Include a completed program budget, using the Program Budget Template (appendix X) in your
proposal below.
a. Indicate per semester cost (not to exceed $4,439.00 per semester) (Inclusive of all Service

Costs: Staff Salaries/Statutory, Staff Prep/Closing Time, Professional Development, and
Materials)
b. Indicate one-time purchases (e.g., equipment, etc.)
ii. The original program budget submitted with the proposal will be used only for the contract award
amount.
iii. Include a program budget narrative detailing all line items in the Program Budget Template (e.g.
# number of employees, pay rate, etc.)
iv. Describe any “in-kind” resources to be provided, including but not limited to outside grants,
volunteers, services, or other resources.
v. Include an organization chart.

Program Budget Template
Ongoing Program Budget Calculations (Invoiced Monthly once services are rendered)
Yearly
Budget
Request

Description
Program Budget Per Semester
(All programs require two (2) in-person 12-week semesters, two (2)
sessions per week, per grade level per semester. Budget not to exceed
$4,439.00 per semester, based on $193.00 per session cost.
● Service Cost is inclusive if all staff salaries/statutory, staff
prep/closing time, professional development, and materials

TOTAL

$

TOTAL

$

TOTAL

$

TOTAL BUDGET

$

Semester Cost:
Number of School Sites:
ADD DESCRIPTION/DETAILS

New Hire Staff Hours (6 Hours Per Staff)
Recruitment Budget Per Semester
(All programs require a 2-week period of recruitment per semester.
Budget not to exceed $1000 per Semester per school site)
ADD DESCRIPTION/DETAILS

One-time Program Budget Calculations (awarded year one only)
Budget
Request

Description
SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT
Including but not limited to technology, instruments, equipment, etc.
TOTAL
ADD DESCRIPTION/DETAILS
TOTAL BUDGET
Proposed Ongoing Budget
Proposed One-time Budget
Proposed Total Budget

$
$
$

$
$

SANTA ANA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT

Expanded Learning Opportunities Programs (ELOP) Elementary and Intermediate Enrichment Programs
RFP EVALUATION

Evaluation of Firms: All proposals will be evaluated using this evaluation sheet. Each proposal will be reviewed and scored based solely
on the information provided in the proposer’s written response to the RFP. A minimum score of 80 points is required to qualify for the
2nd round of evaluation, which includes review by a panel (if applicable). Up to 10 additional points may be awarded in the second
round based on the subjective determination of the Proposer’s ability to carry out the required work. SAUSD will select the top-rated
proposers to be awarded the contract for these services.
Instructions: Evaluators should review each proposer’s response and use the guiding questions under each criterion to assess the
proposal. Assign a score within the designated range that reflects the overall quality, completeness, and feasibility of the response and
record notes to support the rating. Scores must be based only on the information provided in the written proposal. After scoring all
criteria, calculate the final total score.
Proposer Name: ______________________

Evaluator ________________________________

Criteria #1- Program Design (20 points)
1. Program Design
●

How well does the proposer demonstrate capacity to serve
multiple school sites and provide two program sessions per
week? (e.g. TK-2nd Monday and Wednesday for 12 weeks).
(B.i)
● Clearly align their program with at least one priority area
(Arts & Culture, STEM, 21st Century Skills, College & Career
Readiness, or Specialized Movement)?
● Describe a program structure appropriate for TK–8
students?
● Does the proposer include strategies for recruitment,
registration, and accommodating waitlists, including
communication with school site staff and district
approvals?
Section B.i, ii.

Notes
●

Score: ______ / 20 points

Criteria #2-Curriculum Design – Part A (20 points)
2. Program Design Curriculum Part A

Notes
●

●

How well does the proposer detail a purposeful sequencing
of the curriculum specific to all grade levels? (B. iv.)
● How well does the proposer provide a developmentally
appropriate curriculum across each grade band?
(B. v.)
Section B.iv. and v.

Score: ______ / 20 points

Criteria #3-Curriculum Design – Part B (20 points)

Notes

3. Program Design Curriculum Part B

●

●

How well does the proposer describe the ways in which the
agency will ensure a quality enrichment program in the
quality standards outlined below for expanded learning? (B.
vi. b,c,d)
o Active and Engaged Learning- Do activities
demonstrate meaningful, engaging learning that
promotes collaboration and expands student
experiences? (B. vi. b.)
o Skill Building – Does the program connect
objectives and age-appropriate curriculum to 21stcentury skills and support student mastery? (B. vi.
c.)
o Youth Voice and Leadership-Does the program
provide opportunities for students to contribute to
program design and participate in authentic
leadership roles? (B. vi. d.)
Section B.vi.

Score: ______ / 20 points

Criteria #4-Organizational Operations (10 points)
4. Organizational Operations

Notes
●

●

Does the proposer describe the agency’s capacity to hire,
train and retain staff? (C. i.)
● Does the proposer describe how the agency will recruit and
retain students? (C. ii.)
● Does the proposer describe the agency’s capacity to ensure
that substitutes are provided in the event of a staff
member’s absence? (C. iii.)
● Does the proposer outline professional development and
ongoing coaching/support for staff, including compliance
with district training requirements (Sexual Harassment,
Mandated Reporter, New Hire Orientation)?
Section C i., ii. iii.

Score: ______ / 10 points

Criteria #5-Program Evaluation (10 points)
5. Program Evaluation
●

How well does the proposer articulate their
strategy for evaluating the program's effect on
students, encompassing goals, methods, and
metrics? (D. i.)
● How well does the evaluation strategy detail the
application of data for continuous quality
improvement? (D.ii.)
Section D.i., ii.

Notes
●

Score: ______ / 10 points

Criteria #6-Budget (20 points)

Notes

6. General Budget Information

●

●

Did the proposer complete the program budget template
with all the requested details included? (E.i.)
● Does the proposer provide a detailed budget narrative that
clearly explains the rationale behind their budget? (E.ii.)
Section E.i, ii.

Score: ______ / 20 points

Final Evaluation Total: (Minimum to advance-80 points)
Program Design: ______ / 20
Curriculum Design – Part A: ______ / 20
Curriculum Design – Part B: ______ / 20
Organizational Operations: ______ / 10
Program Evaluation: ______ / 10
Budget: ______ / 20

TOTAL SCORE: ______ / 100

Evaluator Signature: ______________________________

ATTACHMENT 2

FIRM PROPOSAL / OFFER FORM

This Proposal/Offer Form must be duly executed and submitted with any proposal/offer to
SAUSD.
The Offeror hereby agrees that its proposal/offer is subject to all RFP 12-26 provisions, terms and
conditions, attachments, exhibits, amendments and other applicable materials which are
attached or incorporated by reference. Offeror hereby agrees to promptly enter into an
agreement in substantial accordance with such RFP provisions, terms and conditions, and secure
a performance bond within five (5) days of the Districts intent to award the contract.
The Offeror hereby agrees that its attached proposal/offer of which this is part, is a firm and
irrevocable offer and valid for acceptance by SAUSD for the period sixty (60) days after closing.
The Offeror hereby agrees that if its proposal/offer is accepted by SAUSD that it shall provide all
of the services in accordance with the RFP, as it may be amended.

Name of Person Duly Authorized to Execute this Proposal/Offer:
Duly Authorized Signature:
Title:
Date of this Proposal/Offer:
Offeror Name:

Offeror Address:

Offeror Telephone:

Offeror Email:

ATTACHMENT 3
SANTA ANA UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT
1601 East Chestnut Avenue
Santa Ana, California 92701-6322
(714) 558-5614
INTERMEDIATE AFTER SCHOOL
ENRICHMENT PROVIDERS
RFP: #12-26
NONCOLLUSION DECLARATION
Public Contract Code § 7106
TO BE EXECUTED BY SUBMITTER AND SUBMITTED WITH RFP
The undersigned declares:
I am the
of

[PRINT YOUR TITLE]
[PRINT FIRM NAME],

the party making the foregoing Contract.
The RFP is not made in the interest of, or on behalf of, any undisclosed person, partnership, company,
association, organization, or corporation. The RFP is genuine and not collusive or sham. The
submitter has not directly or indirectly induced or solicited any other submitter to put in a false or
sham RFP. The submitter has not directly or indirectly colluded, conspired, connived, or agreed with
any submitter or anyone else to put in a sham RFP, or to refrain from submitting. The submitter has
not in any manner, directly or indirectly, sought by agreement, communication, or conference with
anyone to fix the RFP price of the submitter or any other submitter, or to fix any overhead, profit, or
cost element of the RFP price, or of that of any other submitter. All statements contained in the RFP
are true. The submitter has not, directly or indirectly, submitted his or her RFP price or any
breakdown thereof, or the contents thereof, or divulged information or data relative thereto, to any
corporation, partnership, company, association, organization, RFP depository, or to any member or
agent thereof, to effectuate a collusive or sham RFP, and has not paid, and will not pay, any person
or entity for such purpose.
Any person executing this declaration on behalf of a submitter that is a corporation, partnership,
joint venture, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, or any other entity, hereby
represents that he or she has full power to execute, and does execute, this declaration on behalf of
the submitter.

Santa Ana Unified School District

NONCOLLUSION DECLARATION

I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing
is true and correct and that this declaration is executed on the following date:
Date:
Proper Name of Submitter:
City, State:

,

Signature:
Print Name:
Title:

Page 2

ATTACHMENT 4

AGREEMENT FOR CONSULTANT SERVICES
This Agreement for Consultant Services (“Agreement”) is made effective as of July 1, 2025 (“Effective
Date”) by and between the Santa Ana Unified School District (“District”) and Consultant] (“Consultant”).
The District and the Consultant may be referred to herein individually as a “Party” and collectively as the
“Parties.”
RECITALS
A.
The District is authorized by Section 53060 of the California Government Code to contract
with and employ any persons for the furnishing of special services and advice in financial, economic,
accounting, engineering, legal, and administrative matters, if such persons are specially trained and
experienced and competent to perform the special services required.
B.
The District has a need for the following services (“Services”): provides [enter brief,
general description of services – found on the IK12.
The District has determined that the Services are not available within the District, cannot
C.
be performed satisfactorily by District employees, or are of such a highly specialized or technical nature
that the necessary expert knowledge, experience, and ability are not available through the District.
The District has determined that the Consultant is specially trained, experienced, and
D.
competent to perform services of the same type and nature as the Services described herein.
E.
The Parties have entered into this Agreement for purposes of setting forth the terms and
conditions for the Consultant to provide the Services for the District.
Now, therefore, in consideration of the foregoing and of their respective rights and obligations
pursuant to this Agreement, consideration that each Party hereby acknowledges is adequate, the Parties
agree as follows:
AGREEMENT
PART 1.

PERFORMANCE OF SERVICES

Section 1.1 Scope of Services. A detailed description of the Services to be performed by the
Consultant pursuant to this Agreement (“Scope of Services”) is set forth in Exhibit “A” attached to this
Agreement. The Consultant shall perform the Services in strict accordance with the Scope of Services and
other provisions of this Agreement.
Section 1.2 Agreement Term. The term of this Agreement (“Term”) shall commence on the
Effective Date and, unless this Agreement is earlier terminated in accordance with its provisions, the Term
shall expire on June 30, 2026.

District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 1

Section 1.3
District and Consultant Administrators. The representatives of the District
identified in Exhibit “B” attached to this Agreement (each a “District Administrator”) shall, on behalf of
the District, be responsible for administering this Agreement and for monitoring, overseeing, evaluating,
approving, and accepting the Services provided pursuant to this Agreement. The representatives of the
Consultant for all purposes of this Agreement and the Services (each a “Consultant Administrator”) are
also identified in Exhibit B hereto. The Consultant Administrators shall coordinate the performance of the
Services with the District Administrators and shall direct any and all questions, submittals, and receivables
to the District Administrators. For avoidance of doubt, no supplement, amendment, or other modification
to this Agreement shall be valid or binding absent approval (whether directly or through delegation and
ratification) by the Board of Education of the Santa Ana Unified School District (“District Board”).
Section 1.4 Coordination and Metrics. The Parties shall reasonably cooperate in scheduling
and conducting monthly meetings, at mutually acceptable times and dates, to include: (i) one or more of
the District Administrators; (ii) other District representatives as the District deems appropriate and/or
necessary; (iii) one or more of the Consultant Administrators; and (iv) other Consultant representatives as
the Consultant deems appropriate and/or necessary. The purpose of such monthly meetings shall be to
coordinate and discuss the progress of the Services, as well as any potential or existing concerns or issues
relating to the Services. The Parties shall establish mutually acceptable criteria and processes for ongoing
program assessment and evaluation, which may include, but is not limited to, the District’s assessment
metrics and other metrics that may be applicable in connection with District, local, state, or federal
programs. The Parties also shall, from time to time as determined appropriate by the District, review
program content to ensure that the Consultant’s services and standards are aligned with the District’s
goals, including, but not limited to, its Local Control Accountability Plan (“LCAP”).
Section 1.5 Time is of the Essence. Time is of the essence with respect to the performance by
the Consultant of each and all of the Services and of the Consultant’s other obligations pursuant to this
Agreement.
Section 1.6 Labor, Materials, and Supplies. The Consultant shall furnish, at its own expense,
any and all labor, materials, equipment, supplies, and other things needed by the Consultant to
satisfactorily perform the Services in accordance with this Agreement.
Section 1.7
Permits/Licenses. The Consultant and, as applicable, its officers, employees,
volunteers, agents, and other representatives (collectively, “Consultant Staff”) shall secure and at all times
during performance of the Services shall maintain in effect any and all such certifications, permits,
licenses, and other authorizations as are required by law in connection with the performance of the
Services.
Section 1.8 Independent Contractor. For all purposes of this Agreement, the Consultant shall
be deemed and construed to be an independent contractor to the District. Neither the Consultant nor
any of the Consultant Staff shall, as a result of this Agreement, be considered to be, or shall be authorized
to act as, an officer or employee of the District. Except to the extent the Consultant or any of the
Consultant Staff are, by virtue of this Agreement, considered to be an agent of the District, neither the
Consultant nor any of the Consultant Staff shall be authorized to act on behalf of the District, and none of
them shall suffer or permit any person or entity to persist in the apparent belief that any of them is an
officer, employee, or agent of the District. In connection with the Services and this Agreement, the
Consultant shall be fully responsible for the acts and/or omissions of the Consultant Staff. Neither the
Consultant nor any of the Consultant Staff shall, as a result of this Agreement, be entitled to benefits of
any type or nature normally provided to employees of the District and/or to which the District’s
District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 2

employees are normally entitled, including, without limitation, State Unemployment Compensation or
Workers’ Compensation. The Consultant shall be responsible for payment of any and all federal, state,
and local taxes or contributions, including, without limitation, unemployment insurance, social security,
and income taxes attributable to its employees and/or other Consultant Staff. No compensation shall be
payable to the Consultant pursuant to this Agreement on account of any costs incurred by Consultant to
comply with any of the foregoing requirements.
Section 1.9 Compliance with Applicable Laws. The Consultant shall comply with any and all
federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, and other governmental requirements that
are or in the future may become applicable to the Consultant’s activities in connection with this
Agreement and/or the Services.
Section 1.10 Nondiscrimination and Other Policies. In connection with this Agreement and the
Services, and without limiting anything else in this Agreement, the Consultant shall not discriminate
against any person in violation of applicable federal, state, or local laws, including, without limitation, on
the basis of the person’s race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, disability, marital status, gender,
gender identity, sexual orientation, genetic information, age, or military veteran status. Without limiting
the foregoing, the Consultant shall comply with and shall enforce all District policies and administrative
regulations applicable to the presence and/or activities in, on, or at any District school or other property,
including, without limitation, prohibitions against weapons, alcohol, and tobacco.
Section 1.11 Conflicts of Interests. The Consultant hereby represents and warrants that neither
it nor any of its officers has any financial, business, professional, personal, or other interests, including,
but not limited to, the representation of other parties, that would conflict in any manner or degree with
the performance of the Consultant’s obligations pursuant to this Agreement. Such conflicts could include,
but are not limited to, those contemplated by Government Code Section 1090, the California Political
Reform Act (Government Code Section 87100 et seq.), and other California law. If any such conflict of
interests (whether actual or potential) arises in connection with this Agreement, the Consultant shall
immediately inform the District, in writing, regarding such conflict. If the District reasonably determines
that any actual or potential conflict of interests exists with respect to the performance of the Services,
then the District, without liability to or recourse by the Consultant, may terminate the Agreement by
giving written notice to the Consultant, and the termination shall be effective upon receipt of the notice
by the Consultant.
Section 1.12

Consultant Compensation.

Subsection 1.12.1 Consultant Fee. The District shall pay to the Consultant, in exchange
for satisfactory performance by the Consultant of the Services required pursuant to this Agreement, such
compensation as is specified in Exhibit “C” attached to this Agreement (“Consultant Fee”). The Consultant
Fee shall be payable to the Consultant as specified in Exhibit C. The Consultant Fee, as it may be adjusted
in accordance with this Agreement, shall be deemed and construed to: (i) be all-inclusive, full, and final
compensation to the Consultant for the Services provided; and (ii) compensate the Consultant for any and
all overhead, profit, and other amounts associated with performance of the Services.
Subsection 1.12.2 Reimbursement of Expenses. The Consultant shall in no event be
entitled to reimbursement of any expenses that it incurs in connection with performance of the Services
other than as provided in this Subsection. Any reimbursement pursuant to this Subsection shall be in
addition to the Consultant Fee and shall be for the reasonable, actual costs incurred by the Consultant,
without any markup. A condition precedent to reimbursement of each expense is that the Consultant
District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 3

must obtain the District’s written approval of that expense prior to the expense being incurred by the
Consultant, and the District shall not unreasonably deny, delay, or condition any such approval. Without
limiting the foregoing, in no event shall the District be required to reimburse the Consultant for any of the
following: (i) home-office overhead or personnel costs; (ii) supplies, materials, equipment, tools, and other
items required for performance of the Services; (iii) postage or cost of private delivery services less than
$25 for any one delivery; (iv) salary, benefits, travel, lodging, and/or meal expenses of any person; (v)
expenses of overtime work requiring higher than regular rates; or (vi) costs of any additional insurance
coverages or limits in excess of those normally carried by the Consultant or any of its contractors or
consultants that may be authorized to perform portions of the Services.
Subsection 1.12.3
Consultant Invoices. On or about the fifth day of each month
following a month in which the Consultant performed any Services, the Consultant shall provide an invoice
to the District seeking payment for the portion of the Consultant Fee attributable to the preceding month
and, subject to Subsection 1.12.2 herein, for reimbursement of expenses incurred during the preceding
month. Any and all invoiced amounts are subject to verification by the District. The Consultant must in
each invoice specifically describe the basis or bases for the amounts requested and shall submit with the
invoice such documentation as reasonably, specifically, and adequately evidences and supports the
amounts specified in the invoice. If an invoice requests payment for Services provided on an hourly-rate
basis, the documentation to be submitted by the Consultant in support of the invoice must also include
an itemization of the amount of time spent by each person performing the Services and the work
accomplished by such person during such time. The District shall pay the undisputed portion of each such
invoice within thirty days after receipt of the invoice. However, within ten days after receipt of any invoice
from the Consultant, the District may request in writing that the Consultant provide additional
information relating to some or all of the amounts specified in the invoice, and, in such event: (i) the
Consultant shall provide such information to the District within five days following receipt of the District’s
request; and (ii) if the Consultant does not provide the requested information within such five-day period,
the date by which the District must pay such amounts to the Consultant shall be extended for each day or
portion of day in excess of the applicable five-day period, until such time as the Consultant provides that
information to the District.
PART 2.

CONFIDENTIAL AND OTHER INFORMATION

Section 2.1
Data Sharing. The Parties acknowledge that it may become necessary for the
District to share data regarding or relating to one or more District students with the Consultant or
Consultant Staff, for purposes of determining program impact or for other purposes relating to the
Services. In such event, and prior to the District sharing any Student Data, the Parties shall enter into a
separate “Standard Student Data Privacy Agreement” that shall be applicable to: (i) all student data shared
pursuant to this Agreement; and (ii) the Consultant and the Consultant Staff. Notwithstanding the
foregoing: (i) the District in its discretion may decline to comply, in whole or in part, with any request for
student data, if the District determines that providing the requested student data would not be in the
best interests of current or former District students; and (ii) each request for student data must be
approved by the Executive Director of the District’s Research and Evaluation Department.
Section 2.2

Applicable Privacy Requirements.

Subsection 2.2.1 Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. The Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act set forth in 20 U.S.C. Section 1232g (“FERPA”) and 34 CFR Part 99, the federal
regulations that implement FERPA, set forth requirements for protecting the privacy of parent and student
information, including, among others, requirements for maintaining the confidentiality of personally
District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 4

identifiable information (e.g., names, addresses, telephone numbers, dates of birth, test scores, et
cetera). To the extent, in connection with the Services, the Consultant or any of the Consultant Staff
accesses, obtains, stores, uses, or discloses any information within the scope of FERPA (regardless of
whether inadvertently, accidentally, purposefully, or otherwise), then, without limiting anything else in
this Agreement, the Consultant shall comply with any and all applicable requirements of FERPA and its
implementing regulations.
Subsection 2.2.2
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act. The Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Public Law 104-191 (“HIPAA”) and the federal regulations
that implement HIPAA, set forth requirements for, among other things, use and disclosure of individuals’
health information, including, among others, requirements for individuals to control use of their health
information and for entities possessing such health information to properly protect it from unauthorized
disclosure. In addition, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009,
Public Law 111-0005 (“HITECH”) and the federal regulations that implement HITECH, address concerns
associated with electronic transmission of health information and establishes penalties for violations. To
the extent, in connection with the Services, the Consultant or any of the Consultant Staff accesses, obtains,
stores, uses, or discloses any information within the scope of HIPAA and/or HITECH (regardless of whether
inadvertently, accidentally, purposefully, or otherwise), then, without limiting anything else in this
Agreement, the Consultant shall comply with any and all applicable requirements of HIPAA and/or
HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations.
Section 2.3 Consultant Confidentiality Obligation. Except as provided in Section 2.4 herein,
the Consultant and Consultant Staff shall keep confidential and not disclose to any other person or entity
any of the Confidential Student Information that: (i) the Consultant or any of the Consultant Staff obtain
or discover during or as a consequence of performing the Services; or (ii) is provided to the Consultant or
any of the Consultant Staff by the District or any parent, guardian, student, or other person. For purposes
of this Agreement, but without limiting anything else in this Agreement:
(i)

“Confidential Student Information” means any and all information regarding the identity,
condition, family members, home address, participation in programs, or other “personally
identifiable information” of or relating to District students enrolled in or receiving Services that is
provided to, learned by, or inferred by the Consultant or any of the Consultant Staff, including,
without limitation, any information volunteered by a District student; and

(ii)

“Personally identifiable information” means any information (in whatever form or format) that:
(1) can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, such as name, social security
number, personal identification number, student identification number, date and place of birth,
mother’s maiden name, street address, email address, internet protocol address, telephone
number, photograph, and fingerprints or other biometric information; or (2) is linked or linkable
to an individual, such as medical, educational, financial and employment information, race,
religion, and activities.

Section 2.4
Required Disclosure. The Consultant shall give written notice to the District
immediately upon becoming aware that any subpoena, order, demand, or other process seeking or
requiring disclosure or other release of any Confidential Student Information is being sought or has been
issued. In each such event, the District shall be permitted to intervene for purposes of attempting to stop
or limit the disclosure of Confidential Student Information. The Consultant may, notwithstanding Section
2.3 herein, disclose Confidential Student Information if, but only if, a court or other governmental entity
with competent jurisdiction has ordered that the information be disclosed or has authorized a subpoena
District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 5

seeking disclosure of the information. In such event, disclosure shall be limited solely to the scope of
disclosure ordered by the court or other governmental entity.
Section 2.5 Disclosure to District. Notwithstanding anything else in this Agreement, and upon
request of the District from time to time, the Consultant shall provide to the District full and unaltered
copies of any or all of the Confidential Student Information possessed by the Consultant or any of the
Consultant Staff.
PART 3.

HEALTH AND SAFETY OF STUDENTS AND OTHERS
Section 3.1

Background Checks.

Subsection 3.1.1
Purpose and Intent. The Parties acknowledge and agree that, for
purposes of Education Code Section 45125.1, the Consultant Staff who may at any time be present in or
at any District school (“On-Site Personnel”) will not at all times be directly supervised by a student’s parent
or guardian or by District staff. Therefore, the Consultant shall, with respect to all On-Site Personnel,
comply with the requirements of Section 45125.1 relating to background checks and criminal history
summaries.
Subsection 3.1.2 Procedural Requirements. With respect to the On-Site Personnel, the
Consultant shall comply with all applicable California Department of Justice (“DOJ”) requirements for
background checks. For purposes of such background checks, and without limiting the Consultant’s
obligation to comply with DOJ requirements, the Consultant shall cause all On-Site Personnel to be
fingerprinted either: (i) by the Santa Ana Unified School Police Department (“Department”), in its offices
located at 1601 E. Chestnut Avenue, in the City of Santa Ana; or (ii) at any location where Live Scan services
are available, using the agency identifier number assigned to the District by the DOJ (the “Originating
Requesting Identifier” or “ORI”). The Consultant may obtain the District’s ORI by contacting the
Purchasing Department at (714) 558-5614.
Subsection 3.1.3 Certification and Subsequent Reporting. Prior to allowing any of the
On-Site Personnel to be present in or at any District school or other property, and using the form attached
as Exhibit “D” to this Agreement, the Consultant must list the On-Site Personnel and certify to the District
that none of the listed On-Site Personnel have been convicted of any serious or violent felony described
in Education Code Section 44237. The Consultant shall, with respect to the On-Site Personnel, provide,
directly to the District’s Department of School Police, any and all subsequent arrest activity reported by
the California Department of Justice.
Subsection 3.1.4 Personnel Identification. Each of the On-Site Personnel who will be
performing or otherwise present at any District school must, on each visit, without exception, check in at
the administrative offices of the school before entering further into the school or onto the school grounds.
On-Site Personnel must show valid, government-issued identification, so the administrative staff may
confirm that each such person is on the list of persons cleared in accordance with Education Code Section
45125.1. No person may enter further into the school or onto school grounds if the person is not on the
list of cleared personnel. In each case, upon confirming that the On-Site Personnel have been cleared,
the administrative staff will issue a temporary identification using the Raptor system, which identification
must be worn in a conspicuous location on the person’s front, upper body at times during that visit at the
school.

District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 6

Section 3.2 Tuberculosis Assessment and Examinations. The Consultant shall ensure that the
On-Site Personnel in each case have complied with the Tuberculosis assessment and examination
procedures specified in Education Code Section 49406, regardless of whether that Section expressly
makes those requirements applicable to the Services. Prior to allowing any of the On-Site Personnel to
be present in or at any District school, the Consultant shall provide to the District a copy of each certificate,
as described in subdivisions (c) and (d) of Education Code Section 49406, indicating that the On-Site
Personnel are free from infectious Tuberculosis.
PART 4.

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS

Section 4.1
District Ownership. The Consultant hereby acknowledges that, because of the
nature of the services to be performed by the Consultant pursuant to this Agreement, the performance
of those services may result in technologies, formulae, procedures, processes, methods, writings, ideas,
dialogue, compositions, recordings, teleplays, and/or video productions (“Works”) being specifically
created, prepared, written, or otherwise developed for the District in connection with this Agreement. All
such Works, and any and all derivatives thereof, shall be deemed and construed to constitute works for
hire, such that the District is the owner of the Works. In addition, the Consultant hereby separately assigns
to the District, without limitation, any and all copyright, trademark, patent, use, and other rights the
Consultant may have or obtain in the Works and any derivatives of the Works. The Consultant consents
to use of the Consultant’s name in connection with the use, performance, sale, and/or distribution of
some or all of the Works, for any purpose and in any medium.
Section 4.2 Third Party Ownership. Section 4.1, above, shall not be deemed or construed to
apply to any third-party proprietary and/or copyrighted designs or information not created specifically for
purposes of this Agreement and that the Consultant intends to incorporate into the services performed
pursuant to this Agreement (each a “Third-Party Work”). The Consultant shall provide written notice to
the District if the Consultant intends to use any Third-Party Work in connection with, or incorporate any
Third-Party Work into, the Consultant’s services or the products thereof, if any permission, license, or
other specific authorization is required for such use and/or any licensing fee or other charge is payable in
connection with such use or incorporation. Unless the District has already obtained (or has agreed in
writing to obtain) any and all necessary rights to use or incorporate any Third-Party Work without any
ongoing or additional licensing fees or other charges, and without need for renewing any registration or
similar obligation, the Consultant shall be responsible at its sole cost for obtaining any and all rights for
the use or incorporation of the Third-Party Work. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the District
shall have no obligation to obtain rights to use or incorporate any Third-Party Work unless the District
specifically requests that the Consultant use or incorporate that specific Third-Party Work. Subject to the
foregoing, the Consultant represents and warrants that it has or will have the legal right to use and/or
incorporate any and all Third-Party Work in connection with the services to be performed pursuant to this
Agreement and/or the products thereof. The Consultant shall indemnify, hold-harmless and defend the
District, in accordance with this Agreement, with respect to claims arising out of any failure or alleged
failure of the Consultant to comply with its obligations pursuant to this Section.
PART 5.

INDEMNIFICATION

Section 5.1 Indemnification by Consultant. The Consultant shall indemnify and hold harmless
the District, the Board of Education of the District and each individual member thereof, and the District’s
other officers, employees, and agents (collectively, but not including the District, the “District
Representatives”), and each of them, with respect to any and all damages, losses, judgments, costs, and
expenses (including, without limitation, attorney’s fees and expenses), and other liabilities of whatever
District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 7

nature (each a “Liability” and, if referencing multiple, the “Liabilities”) that arise from any negligent act or
omission, or any willful misconduct, of the Consultant or any of its directors, officers, employees, or agents
(collectively, but not including the Consultant, the “Consultant Representatives”) in connection with this
Agreement or the Services. The Consultant shall defend, as applicable, the District and the District
Representatives with respect to any and each claim, demand, action, or other proceeding (each a
“Proceeding”) that by allegation or implication is within the scope of the Consultant’s indemnification
obligations pursuant to this Section. Each such defense must be conducted by qualified and appropriately
experienced legal counsel reasonably acceptable to the District, but selected and retained by the
Consultant, at no cost to the District or any of the District Representatives.
Section 5.2
Indemnification by District. The District shall indemnify and hold harmless the
Consultant, the Consultant Representatives, and each of them, with respect to any and all Liabilities that
arise from any negligent act or omission, or any willful misconduct, of the District or any of the District
Representatives in connection with this Agreement or the Services. The District shall defend, as
applicable, the Consultant and the Consultant Representatives with respect to any and each Proceeding
that by allegation or implication is within the scope of the District’s indemnification obligations pursuant
to this Section. Each such defense must be conducted by qualified and appropriately experienced legal
counsel reasonably acceptable to the Consultant, but selected and retained by the District, at no cost to
the Consultant or any of the Consultant Representatives.
Section 5.3
Comparative Liability. Notwithstanding the Sections 5.1 and 5.2 herein, if both
Parties are, to some extent, responsible for any particular Liability (i.e., the negligence or willful
misconduct of both Parties, or others for whom they are responsible, are contributing factors), then, in
connection with that Liability, each Party shall be responsible for defending itself and its representatives,
and the Parties shall be responsible and liable on a comparative basis.
Section 5.4 Insurance Not a Limitation on Liability. Neither Party’s obligations pursuant to this
Part 5 shall be deemed or construed to be: (i) conditioned upon, or in any manner limited by, any
insurance coverage maintained by a Party or other person or entity; or (ii) conditioned upon the receipt
by any Party, person or entity of, or limited to the amount of, any insurance proceeds.
Section 5.5 Interpretation. For avoidance of doubt and for all purposes of this Agreement: (i)
a Party’s obligation to indemnify another Party, person, or entity (“Indemnitee”) means that the
“indemnifying” Party shall compensate the Indemnitee for, or secure or protect the Indemnitee against,
the harm, loss, damages, costs, expenses, and other liabilities as may be incurred by the Indemnitee, and
such obligation shall not be limited solely to third-party claims; and (ii) an indemnifying Party’s obligation
to hold harmless an Indemnitee means that the indemnifying Party shall not seek compensation from the
Indemnitee for, or otherwise seek to make the Indemnitee responsible for, the harm, loss, damages, costs,
expenses, and other liabilities incurred by the indemnifying Party.
Section 5.6 Survival. With respect to any and all acts, omissions, and incidents that occur prior
to the termination of this Agreement, the Parties’ respective rights and obligations pursuant to this
Section shall survive termination of this Agreement.

District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 8

PART 6.

INSURANCE

Section 6.1 Required Policies. Prior to commencing any of the Services, the Consultant must
procure (if applicable) and, during all periods required by this Agreement, must maintain in effect, the
insurance policies required pursuant to this Part 6 (“Required Policies”). The Required Policies include the
following:
(i)

General Liability Insurance. A policy of commercial general liability insurance that is written on
an “occurrence” basis and that provides coverage with a combined single limit of not less than
$1,000,000 for all activities conducted by the Consultant pursuant to this Agreement (“General
Liability Policy”). The General Liability Policy must include, without limitation, coverage for the
contractual liability assumed by the Consultant pursuant to this Agreement.

(ii)

Business Auto Liability Insurance. A policy of business auto liability insurance (however
denominated) that is written on an “occurrence” basis, and has coverage limits of not less than
$1,000,000 per occurrence and $1,000,000 aggregate (“Vehicle Liability Policy”). The Vehicle
Liability Policy must include, without limitation, coverage for liability, property damage, bodily
injury, and uninsured-underinsured motorists.

(iii)

Abuse-Molestation Insurance. A policy of abuse-molestation insurance (“Abuse Policy”) that: (1)
is separate from the General Liability Policy and any professional liability and other insurance
policies that the Consultant may have in effect; (2) is written on an “occurrence” basis; (3) has
coverage limits of not less than $3,000,000 per occurrence and $6,000,000 aggregate; (4) provides
coverage for direct and vicarious liability associated with sexual misconduct and other physical
abuse, and for verbal, emotional, mental, and other non-physical abuse; (5) covers acts and
omissions by, among others, the Consultant’s staff; (6) provides coverage for the District prior to
any determination that an accused abuser is guilty; and (7) provides for payment of defense costs
outside the Abuse Policy’s coverage limits. The Consultant shall comply with any and all risk
management controls reasonably required by the insurer that issues the Abuse Policy.

(iv)

Professional Liability Insurance. A policy of professional liability insurance, with coverage in an
amount not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000 aggregate (“Professional Liability
Policy”). The District acknowledges that the Professional Liability Policy shall be written on a
“claims made” basis. The Professional Liability Policy shall be subject to all of the following: (1)
the effective date of the coverage must be shown and must be prior to the date the Consultant
commences performance of the Services; (2) the coverage must be maintained, and evidence of
coverage must be provided, for at least two years following final payment to the Consultant
pursuant to this Agreement; (3) if coverage is cancelled or renewed, and not replaced with
another claims-made policy having a retroactive coverage date that is prior to or the same as the
date the original policy took effect, the Consultant must purchase extended-period coverage (i.e.,
tail) that provides coverage until the end of the two-year period described in the preceding clause;
and (4) upon request, a copy of any and all claims reporting requirements, for original and
replacement policies, must be submitted to the District for review.

(v)

Cyber Liability. Cyber Liability Insurance with limits of no less than $1,000,000 for each occurrence
or event with an annual aggregate of $2,000,000 covering privacy violations, information theft,
damage to or destruction of electronic information, intentional and/or unintentional release of
private information, alteration of electronic information, extortion, and network security. The
policy shall protect the District and cover breach response costs and regulatory fines and
penalties.
District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 9

(vi)

Workers’ Compensation Insurance. A policy of workers’ compensation insurance as required by
California law (“Worker Compensation Policy”). Notwithstanding the insurer standards set forth
in Section 6.2 herein, coverage provided by the California State Compensation Insurance Fund
shall be deemed, with respect to the Worker Compensation Policy, to satisfy such insurer rating
standards.

Section 6.2 Insurer Standards. The insurance policies required pursuant to this Part 6 must be
issued by one or more insurers authorized to do business in the State of California and having an A.M.
Best Company rating (i.e., “Best’s Rating”) of not less than an “A-“ (i.e., “A Minus”) and Financial Size
Category of not less than “VII.”
Section 6.3 Situs. Notwithstanding any choice-of-law, conflict-of-laws, or other provision of any
federal, state or other law, each of the Consultant’s insurance policies must be “situs” California, so that
all interpretations and disputes, if any, shall be subject to and governed by California law, any and all
actions and other proceedings to interpret or enforce rights or obligations under the Required Policies
shall be initiated and commenced in the County of Orange, California.
Section 6.4 Additional Insureds. Each of the General Liability Policy, the Vehicle Liability Policy,
and the Abuse Policy shall name (or be endorsed to name) as additional insureds in connection with this
Agreement and the Services: (i) the District, the District Board and each individual member thereof, and
the District’s other officers, employees, and agents (collectively, but not including the District, the “District
Agents”). The additional insured endorsements must be ISO form CG 2010 11/85 or alternative approved
in advance by the District, in its reasonable discretion. For purposes of this Section, and without otherwise
limiting the District’s discretion to determine an alternative to form CG 2010 11/85, a combination of ISO
forms CG 2010 10/01 and CG 2037 10/01 shall be deemed an acceptable alternative to ISO form CG 2010
11/85.
Section 6.5

Cross Liability and Subrogation.

Subsection 6.5.1 Cross Liability. A cross liability provision in an insurance policy allows
the insurance to be applied to each of the policy holder and additional insureds, as if the policy had been
issued to each of them. This way, if one insured sues another insured, the insurance policy will still provide
coverage. Each of the Required Policies, other than the Worker Compensation Policy, must be endorsed
to include a cross liability provision.
Subsection 6.5.2 Subrogation. A waiver of subrogation ensures that, if an insurer pays
on a claim or loss, the insurer won’t be able to then pursue another party for reimbursement of the
amounts paid. An insurance policy may or may not provide for subrogation as to additional insureds, but
an insured party typically can waive subrogation on behalf of its insurers. With respect to the Required
Policies, the Consultant hereby waives, on behalf of itself and its insurers, any and all rights of subrogation
against the District and the District Agents. In addition, each of the Required Policies must be endorsed
to include a waiver of subrogation applicable to the District and District Agents.
Section 6.6
Consultant Insurance is Primary. To the extent permitted by law, the Required
Policies shall be primary and non-contributing with respect to any insurance or self-insurance programs
covering the District and/or any of the District Agents. Each of the General Liability Policy, the Vehicle
Liability Policy, the Abuse Policy, Cyber Liability, and the Professional Liability Policy must be endorsed to
provide that it is so primary and non-contributory.
District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 10

Section 6.7 Deductibles and Self-Insured Retentions. The Consultant must disclose in writing
to the District any and all deductibles and self-insured retentions applicable to any of the insurance
policies the Consultant is to have in effect pursuant to this Agreement. Each deductible or self-insured
retention requirement in excess of $10,000 is subject to discretionary approval by the District and, at the
option of the District, the Consultant either: (i) must cause the insurer to reduce or eliminate such
deductibles or self-insured retentions with respect to claims arising in connection with this Agreement; or
(ii) must provide a financial guarantee satisfactory to the District that guarantees payment of losses and
related investigations, claim administration, and defense expenses. Each insurance policy that is subject
to any deductible or self-insured retention must be endorsed to permit the District to pay the deductible
or retention in the event the Consultant is the subject of any bankruptcy proceeding (whether voluntary
or involuntary) or otherwise is unable to, or does not, pay such amount.
Section 6.8 Evidence of Coverage. The requirements of this Part 6 are mandatory and can be
waived or modified only by written consent of the District, which consent the District may grant, deny, or
condition in its sole discretion. Prior to, and as a condition precedent to, commencing the Services, the
Consultant must provide to the District: (i) such duly-authorized and executed certificates of insurance as
reasonably evidence that Required Policies are in full force and effect (each a “Certificate of Insurance”);
(ii) a copy of each and all endorsements required pursuant to this Part 6; and (iii) if applicable, the written
disclosure of deductibles and self-insured retentions required pursuant to this Part 6. The Certificates of
Insurance shall identify those who are to be named as additional insureds in accordance with this
Agreement. The Consultant must, as applicable: (i) provide written notice to the District not less than
thirty days prior to any cancellation, termination, reduction in coverage, or expiration without renewal of
any such insurance policy; and (ii) provide updated Certificates of Insurance to the District promptly upon
renewal of any of the Required Policies.
PART 7.

DISPUTE RESOLUTION AND TERMINATION

Section 7.1
Governing Law. Notwithstanding any conflict-of-laws, choice of law, or other
provision in any federal, state, or local law or other governmental requirement, this Agreement shall be
governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of California. Each and every claim,
demand, action, and other proceeding that arises from this Agreement shall be initiated and conducted
only in an appropriate court of competent jurisdiction located in the County of Orange, California.
Section 7.2 Dispute Resolution. The Parties desire to quickly and cost-effectively resolve any
disputes related to the interpretation or enforcement of this Agreement. Therefore, each Party shall make
best efforts to resolve informally any such disputes. If the Parties are able to agree on the terms and
procedures for mediation, the Parties may agree that the informal resolution attempts will include
mediation of any such dispute. If, not less than thirty calendar days after first making informal attempts
to resolve any such dispute, the informal attempts have been unsuccessful, (or, if the Parties have agreed
to mediation, after termination or completion of mediation without resolution of the dispute) either Party
may thereafter initiate litigation or other proceedings as deemed appropriate by such Party.
Section 7.3 Attorneys’ Fees. In connection with any and each claim, demand, action, mediation,
arbitration, and other proceeding between or involving the Parties that arises from this Agreement and/or
the Services, each Party shall be responsible for paying its own costs, including, without limitation,
attorneys’ fees and other legal costs and expenses, including, without limitation, collection expenses,
expert witness fees, and court costs.
District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 11

Section 7.4
Termination for Cause. Either Party (as “Alleging Party”) may terminate this
Agreement, for cause, if the other Party (as “Defaulting Party”) has defaulted on its obligations pursuant
to this Agreement and has not cured that default within thirty days following notice from the Alleging
Party that details the default in reasonable detail (“Notice of Default”). In the event a Defaulting Party
has not timely cured a default within the applicable thirty-day period, the Alleging Party may thereafter
provide a notice of termination to the Defaulting Party, and the termination shall be effective immediately
upon receipt of the notice by the Defaulting Party.
Section 7.5 District Termination for Convenience. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary,
the District, at any time and without need for cause or reason, may terminate this Agreement, in whole
or in part, by giving written notice of termination to the Consultant, and such termination shall be effective
immediately upon receipt of the notice by the Consultant.
PART 8.

MISCELLANEOUS

Section 8.1
Assignment. The Consultant may not assign any of its rights pursuant to this
Agreement or delegate any of its obligations pursuant to this Agreement absent the express written
consent of the District, which consent the District may withhold, grant, or condition in its sole discretion.
Section 8.2 Entire Agreement/Amendment. This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement
of the Parties with respect to the matters addressed in this Agreement, and this Agreement supersedes
and replaces any and all prior and contemporaneous discussions, understandings, and agreements with
respect to such matters. This Agreement may be amended or otherwise modified, in each case, only by a
written instrument duly approved, signed, and delivered by both Parties.
Section 8.3 Waiver. No waiver by a Party of any provision of this Agreement shall be binding
or enforceable unless it is set forth in writing and has been duly approved and signed by the waiving Party.
The failure of a Party to seek redress for violation of, or to insist upon, the strict performance of any term
or condition of this Agreement, shall not be deemed a waiver by that Party of such term or condition, or
prevent a subsequent similar act from again constituting a violation of such term or condition.
Section 8.4 Notice. Each notice or demand given pursuant to this Agreement (each a “Notice”)
must be in writing and delivered by: (i) personal service; (ii) registered or certified U.S. Mail, return receipt
requested, and postage prepaid; (iii) FedEx, UPS, or other reliable private delivery service, signature on
delivery receipt required and delivery charges prepaid; or (iv) electronic mail (i.e., email) transmission
(with original of the Notice deposited into the U.S. mail, first-class postage prepaid, within twenty-four
hours after transmission). Notices: (i) must be addressed and sent to the applicable person(s) and
address(es) specified for purposes of Notice in Exhibit B to this Agreement; and (ii) shall be deemed to
have been given or served only upon actual receipt by the recipient. As an additional condition to sending
a Notice by email, the reference (or “re”) line must be specified as “NOTICE: AGREEMENT FOR
CONSULTANT SERVICES.” Because email addresses are subject to change more frequently than physical
addresses, if a Notice is to be sent by email, and unless the sender has actual knowledge of the thencurrent correct email address of each intended recipient, the sender must call and verify the then-current
email address of each intended recipient prior to sending the Notice, or must use some other method of
delivering the Notice. A Party may change its address or other contact information for purposes of this
Section by written notice in accordance with this Section. This Section shall not be deemed or construed

District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 12

to apply to: (i) communications between the Parties for purposes of the day-to-day administration of this
Agreement; or (ii) service of process in accordance with any applicable law or rule of court.
Section 8.5
Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any term,
condition, or provision of this Agreement is invalid, void, or unenforceable, the remaining provisions shall
nevertheless continue in full force and effect, and shall not be affected, impaired, or invalidated in any
way.
Section 8.6 Exhibits and Recitals. Any and all recitals set forth herein and any and all exhibits
attached hereto are hereby incorporated as operative and effective provisions of this Agreement. In the
event any one or more of the exhibits to this Agreement incorporate all or any portion of any proposal for
the Services provided by the Consultant, and any provision in the main body of this Agreement or
elsewhere in any Exhibit conflicts with or otherwise is inconsistent with any provision in the proposal, the
provision in the main body of the Agreement or elsewhere in the Exhibits shall govern over the provision
in the proposal.
Section 8.7 Fair and Reasonable Interpretations. Each Party acknowledges that, prior to the
Effective Date, that Party has received, or had unqualified opportunities to receive, independent advice
from its own legal counsel regarding meaning of the provisions herein and the advisability of entering into
this Agreement. Therefore, the provisions of this Agreement shall be interpreted based on their fair and
reasonable meanings, and not for or against a Party based on whether that Party or its legal counsel was
primarily responsible for drafting this Agreement or any particular provision herein.
Section 8.8 Headings and Captions. The headings and captions set forth in this Agreement are
for the convenience of the reader only and shall not be deemed to establish, define, or limit the meaning
of any Section or other provision.
Section 8.9 Correct Legal Requirements Deemed Included. Each and every provision required
by any applicable law to be included in this Agreement is hereby deemed to be so included, and this
Agreement shall be construed and enforced as if all such provisions are so included.
Section 8.10 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. The Parties have entered into this Agreement solely
for their own purposes, and this Agreement shall not be deemed or construed to: (i) benefit any third
party; (ii) create any right for any third party; or (iii) except as provided by law, provide a basis for any
claim, demand, action, or other proceeding by any third party.
Section 8.11 Agreement is Public Record. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary: (i) nothing
in this Agreement shall be deemed or construed to constitute confidential information; and (ii) this
Agreement is a public record which the District may disclose in accordance with California law or
otherwise.
(The remainder of this page intentionally left blank.)

District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 13

PART 9.

EXECUTION OF AGREEMENT

Section 9.1 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the
same instrument. Signature pages may be detached from counterpart originals and combined to
physically form one or more copies of this Agreement having original signatures of both Parties. Signature
pages sent via email shall also constitute original signatures under this Agreement.
Section 9.2 Due Authority. Each person who signed this Agreement on behalf of a Party shall
be deemed and construed to thereby represent and warrant that he or she has been duly authorized by
that Party to sign, and thereby bind the Party to, this Agreement.
In witness of the foregoing, the Parties have executed this Agreement, as evidenced by the
signatures below of their respective, duly authorized representatives.
DISTRICT:
Santa Ana Unified School District

CONSULTANT:
[Consultant Name]

By:

By:

Signature

Signature

Michael Esparza
Printed Name

Printed Name

Director of Purchasing
Title

Title

Date Signed

Date Signed

Board of Education Approval Date:

District Agreement Number: 25/26Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page 14

EXHIBIT “A”
SCOPE OF SERVICES
Consultant will provide … [Insert a detailed description of the Services to be provided by the Consultant
The site should have attached a SOW – or we can use what’s in the description on the IK12.

District Agreement Number: [IK12 Number]
Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page A-1

EXHIBIT “B”
PARTY REPRESENTATIVES
Consultant
A.

B.

As of the Effective Date, the Consultant Administrators (see Section 1.3 of the main body of this
Agreement) are:
(i)

[insert name and title], who is the primary Consultant contact person with respect to
administration of this Agreement; and

(ii)

[insert name and title], who is the secondary Consultant contact person in the event the
Consultant’s primary contact person is unavailable or in other extraordinary circumstances.

As of the Effective Date, the Consultant representative to whom Notices are to be sent in
accordance with Section 8.4 of the main body of this Agreement, and that person’s contact
information, are:
Send Notices to:
[insert Consultant entity name]
Attn: [insert representative name and title]
[insert street address]
[insert city, state, zip code]
Email: [insert person’s email address]

District
A.

B.

As of the Effective Date, the District Administrators (see Section 1.3 of the main body of this
Agreement) are:
(i)

[insert name and title], who is the primary District contact person with respect to
administration of this Agreement.

(ii)

[insert name and title], who is the secondary District contact person in the event the District’s
primary contact person is unavailable or in other extraordinary circumstances.

As of the Effective Date, the District representatives to whom Notices are to be sent in accordance
with Section 8.4 of the main body of this Agreement, and their respective contact information, are:
Send Notices to:
Santa Ana Unified School District
Attn: Michael Esparza – Director of Purchasing
1601 E. Chestnut Ave
Santa Ana, CA 92701
Email: Michael.esparza@sausd.us

District Agreement Number: [IK12 Number]
Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page B-1

EXHIBIT “C”
CONSULTANT COMPENSATION
In exchange for full and satisfactory completion of the Services, the District shall compensate the
Consultant as follows:
Choose the appropriate method of compensation below and delete the others – WE TYPICALLY USE
METHOD 2:
Method 2
A Consultant Fee that shall in no event exceed the total amount of $_________________ (“Maximum
Total Fee”), allocated and payable to the Consultant on a monthly not-to-exceed basis (“Maximum
Monthly Fee”), as determined by dividing the Maximum Total Fee by the number of months in the Term.
If the Term is not divisible into equal monthly periods, the remainder (i.e., final payment period) shall be
deemed to be a month for purposes of determining the Maximum Monthly Fee. In each case that, in
accordance with the provisions in the main body of this Agreement, the Term is duly extended or the
time for completion of the Services otherwise is extended, the Maximum Monthly Fee shall be
recalculated in accordance with the foregoing.
Method 3
A Consultant Fee based on the rate of $_________ per hour, not to exceed a total of
$_________________ for full and final completion of all Services required pursuant to this Agreement.
Method 4
A Consultant Fee based on the hourly rates set forth in the Schedule of Hourly Rates below, not to
exceed a total of $_________________ for full and final completion of all Services required pursuant to
the Agreement. If use this provision, insert schedule of hourly rates below.

District Agreement Number: [IK12 Number]
Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page C-1

EXHIBIT “D”
CERTIFICATION REGARDING ON-SITE PERSONNEL
District: Santa Ana Unified School District
Consultant: [Insert Consultant Name]
Agreement: Agreement for Consultant Services dated __________, 2025
The undersigned hereby certifies to the District, subject to penalty for perjury pursuant to the laws of the
State of California, that all of the following is true and correct:
(i) The undersigned is a duly authorized representative of the Consultant identified above on this form
and, in that capacity, has executed this certification on behalf of the Consultant;
(ii) The Consultant has fully complied with the requirements of this Agreement for criminal-history
background checks of On-Site Personnel, including, without limitation, with respect to personnel that the
Consultant may consider to be employees of its contractors or consultants, if any;
(iii) None of the On-Site Personnel identified on the Attachment(s) to this certification have any pending
criminal proceeding for, or have been convicted of, any violent or serious felony as defined in Education
Code Section 45122.1;
(iv) The Consultant shall permit only those persons identified on the Attachment(s) to this certification
to provide any of the Services, or otherwise be present at any of the District’s schools.
Representative Name:

___________________________________________

Representative Title:

___________________________________________

Representative Signature:

___________________________________________

Date Signed:

_________________________________________

District Agreement Number: [IK12 Number]
Requested Department: [IK12 Dept]

Page D-1

Attachment #5
Equipment Tracker Template
NOTE: Equipment Tracker is only for equipment valued at $500.00 or more.
Equipment Item Name

Equipment Description
(Brand/Serial Number)

QTY

Total Cost

